Today's lesson continues on
computer network evolution. Internet provides transfer of packets
of information across multiple possible dissimilar networks. Before discussing internet architecture
let's visit some of the types of networks such as Internet operation. Early computers were extremely expensive,
so network techniques were developed to
allow them to be shared by users. The first computer network was the SAGE
developed for air defense systems. The architecture was often tree
topology terminal oriented networks. As the cost of computers job
it had become necessary for users to connect to different
computers for different applications. The ARPANET awards of a first major
effort at the developing internet work to interconnect computers
over a wide geographical area. So Internet was later developed to
enable communications between computers that attached to different network. In late 1980's to 2000's we have witnessed proliferation of new
applications on internet gross. Terminal-Oriented Networks
provide a message transfer service to allow a number of
terminals to share a host computer. Access from terminals located farther
away from the host computer became possible as telephone communication
lines and a modem became available. The cost of providing dedicated
communication lines were expensive, while terminals generated
a message in a bursting manner. Medium Access Control message were
developed to allow a number of terminals to communicate with essential computer
using a sheer communication line. In an arbitrated manner to
avoid a possible conflict due to simultaneous transfers. Messages from a terminal
are encapsulated inside a frame that consists of a header in
addition to the user message. Polling protocol uses a master-slave
arrangement where the central computer sends a poll message to
a specific terminal on the line. All terminals listen to
the said outgoing] line. But only the terminal
that is polled replies by sending a ready information
on the incoming line. Multiplexing provides another means for sharing a communication
line among terminals. Frames are buffered at multiplexer
until the line became available. So communication line transmits
a sequence of binary digits. So a framing message is required
to delineate the beginning and the end of each frame. Communication lines instill errors. Error control techniques were developed to
ensure virtually error-free communication. Each frame could have
a number of check bits. Usually calculated that by cyclic
redundancy check called CRC. As cost of computers jumped,
there was a need to develop flexible to computer to computer networks
to support Different applications. The transfer of message between
networked computers seem to be similar to the message switching
services in telegraph networks. But computer networks should
support multiple applications, transmission time should be short enough. For messages from interactive
applications, while the store-and-forward operation could induce high delay for
large messages. Packet switching was designed to provide
a package transfer service, where a packet is of variable length broken
information up to some specified maximum. Using messages that do not fit inside
a single packet are segmented and transmitted using multiple packets. And they are reassembled
at their destination. ARPANET was developed to provide a test
bed for researching the interconnection of our host computers using package
switching across a wide area network. It was somewhat a product of
as a harvest structure of the system could have been too vulnerable. In ARPANET, we see most of the elements
of computer network architecture such as emissions services was
connection-less in the sense. So the no connection set-up what Required
prior to the transmission of a packet. Packets are encapsulated in frames and
the check bits are used for error control. Destinations are identified
by unique addresses. And the routing tables are calculating
dynamically at the packet switch. It provides end-to-end congestion
control to prevent congestion inside the network and
flow control to prevent buffer overflow. As ARPANET evolved to NSF-NET,
more nodes joined the network, and a new application was introduced. As workstations and PCs became
more affordable there was need for low cost, low error rate,
and high speed networks. The practice gave rise to networks with
limited typically less than one kilometer. Called local area networks,
or simply LANs. LANs use broadcasting for
transfer frames within the network. Media access control protocol becomes
essential to coordinate access to transmission media in order to
prevent a clashings between friends. Each machine network interface card has a global unique address
called a MAC address. To summarize, minimum architecture design
evolution is driven by services and applications.